This work was written, published, and distributed by Jane Doe in June 2014.

The original publication can be found here: 
http://wombofonesown.wordpress.com/ 
http://wombofonesown.wordpress.com/2014/06/30/a-womb-of-ones-own-complete-text-basic-edition/ 
http://wombofonesown.wordpress.com/category/uncategorized/ 
https://www.dropbox.com/s/18nu8d35gqil15t/AWombofOnesOwn.pdf

We are sharing this publication on github in the spirit of distribution and DIY culture.

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
A Womb of One’s Own: Taking Charge of Your Reproduction Without Doctors by Jane Doe


This book is dedicated to every woman who has ever been forced into a reproductive choice
she didn’t want to make. Yes, this means you.


Foreword: Don’t Panic If you’re reading this book because you have a political interest in
its contents, you are welcome to skip over this part. Some of you, though, are undoubtedly
reading not because you’re curious, but because you need the information it contains—right
now. The most important thing you can do for yourself if you need information on abortion
care (or any other issue involving whether or not to have a baby), is to read this book
carefully. Skipping over information could pose a risk to your safety or health. It is
important not to double up on doses or change the procedures in this book, which have been
based on extensive research.

You may have been told some misinformation about the relative safety of the abortion pill.
You may be thinking that simply by purchasing these pills you are putting yourself at
legal risk, or that abortion is unsafe. Many anti-abortion organizations have chosen to
emphasize the dangers of abortion, but these organizations consistently neglect to mention
a simple fact: first trimester abortions, even home abortion with pills obtained on the
internet, are significantly safer than births. Second-trimester abortions are slightly
safer to equally safe.

There is no 100% safe way to stop a pregnancy once it starts—not through miscarriage, not
through abortion, and not through birth. While birth is relatively safe today, abortion is
in fact even safer—a fact that often gets lost in the rhetoric surrounding issues of
reproductive choice.

If you’re starting to read this book today, and you are not located near the Mexico border
(where pills may be obtained relatively easily), it is likely that it will take you
between one and three weeks to obtain your abortion medication. The most important
information you need about your pregnancy will be the date that your most recent period
started. This means that you can obtain the pills and have over a week to plan and prepare
yourself for your abortion. There is no need to panic, no need to rush, and no need to
take shortcuts with your termination. In these pages, you’ll learn not only how to
terminate your pregnancy, but how to avoid future pregnancies (or even, in the expanded
edition, how to increase your fertility in the future, when you would like to carry a
pregnancy to term).

While waiting for your pills to arrive, take your time and learn about the procedure
you’ll be following—what you’ll need, what to expect, and how to know if you’re
experiencing complications that should send you to the emergency room. You’ll be less
scared and more empowered to make the decision that’s right for you.


I. Introduction

Reproductive choice in the United States today is characterized by a wide gulf between
what is legal and what is accessible.

For millions of American women, the ability to choose whether to become pregnant or
whether to continue a pregnancy simply does not exist. The number of abortion providers
has declined steeply, and “conscience clause” laws have allowed pharmacies to stop
stocking contraception and emergency contraception options.

A recent Supreme Court decision got rid of clinic “buffer zones,” which ensures that even
women who are able to visit abortion clinics are more vulnerable than ever to taunts,
harassment, and physical assault.

Meanwhile, many on the left are unsure of how to stem the rising tide of anti-abortion
legislation. Many pro-choice people are still squeamish at the actual idea of
abortion—perhaps this includes you, and if so, this guide may be quite eye-opening and
give you a better understanding of what we’re fighting for.

In this guide, you won’t find any sugarcoating. I will try to refer to things by their
most exact, blunt, plain names: vagina, abortion, The Pill, Plan B. There is nothing
shameful—nothing!—about making the choice to abort a pregnancy, and I want to make sure
that the information in this guide is conveyed directly, without unnecessary subterfuge.

As someone who has lived in the North and South, the East and West, in cities with
millions of others and snowy rural hamlets of a few hundred people, I have seen how access
can be limited in many areas and by many factors. This problem is not limited to “red”
states where Republicans dominate. Even in liberal states, there are areas with no
abortion provider for hundreds of miles. When states combine this geographic spread with
restrictions like waiting periods, getting a simple early abortion can cost thousands of
dollars including transportation, hotel costs, childcare, and the procedure itself.

No woman—not one—would make the choice to abort in the current conditions, except that
they believe themselves to have no other options for aborting safely. I think most women
would prefer to receive their abortion pills in their own homes, without having to walk
past lines of protesters or hear a speech full of misinformation about fetal pain. Yet
this “choice,” in spite of its safety, is not available. Women opt for the choice of going
hundreds of miles and spending hundreds or even thousands of dollars on abortion
procedures not because it is ideal, but because there is no other option.

No woman—not one—would make the choice to receive birth control in the current conditions,
except that they believe the alternative to be unwanted pregnancy. No woman would choose
to be put up into stirrups and given a test totally unrelated to her request for birth
control (imagine men being forced to have prostate examinations each year to receive
Viagra prescriptions!). We make these “choices” and feel they are liberating only because
they liberate us in comparison to having no option at all.

But what if there were other options? What if “choice” wasn’t just a fiction?

Ten years ago, after seeing what was at that time the nation’s most restrictive abortion
law being passed in South Dakota (it would later be overturned), I wrote an abortion
manual for the women in that state. The manual, which was as much political statement as
instruction list, consisted of information on how to provide a dilation and curettage
abortion, or D&C, through the first trimester of pregnancy.

Since that time, I have been accumulating information on how women can best manage their
own fertility in a number of ways. This knowledge has come from a number of sources. I
have used scholar.google.com to keep up to date with the latest information regarding
methods of abortion, contraception, and fertility enhancement (fertility enhancement
available only in expanded edition).

This research has led me to several conclusions.

The first is that women have had their choices restricted in ways they may not even have
contemplated before. In many countries other than the United States, for example,
diaphragms are a contraceptive option available without a prescription. What’s more,
doctors have been prescribing a method of use for diaphragms in the United States that
runs directly contrary to a 30-year body of research indicating that a simpler, cheaper
method is more effective and easier for women to use.

The second conclusion is that there is simply no impetus in government to allow women
control over our reproductive lives. There is no chance that women will really have a
standard of informed choice in the United States in the near future.

For a long time, I was content to simply share this information with friends and
acquaintances who needed it. However, after ten years of learning about these methods, I
decided it is time to share them with a wider audience.

“My body, my choice” is a slogan long trumpeted by feminist organizations, but it seems
like most of that sloganeering has simply been used to solicit more donations for The Way
Things Are Done Now.


What would it mean to live in a world where our bodies really were ours—where we could
make our choices about reproduction without involving anybody else as a gatekeeper? What
would it be like, a world where every woman had abortion pills in her bathroom cabinet
next to her birth control pills—a world where days or weeks of agonizing guilt-trips
weren’t necessary to terminate a pregnancy? What would happen if women had access to
fertility enhancement information that could make it easier for them to become pregnant
when they wanted? What would happen if women could obtain birth control even without a
doctor signing off on her desire to have sex without becoming pregnant?

The medical gatekeeper model has become so enshrined that it can be difficult to even
think of such a world. But the truth is that abortion, contraception, and fertility
enhancement are cheaper, easier, and more reliable than ever in the history of human
civilization.

You can’t get an abortion pill for $20, a fertility medication course for $50, or a $5
birth control pill pack over the counter at your local drugstore—but that’s not because
they actually cost more. It’s because of the medical gatekeeping associated with these
medications that they cost incredible amounts.

No woman should have to pay thousands of dollars to restore her fertility if she has, for
instance, polycystic ovarian syndrome. No woman should have to pay thousands of dollars
for her abortion. Cheap, effective, well-studied options exist—and the purpose of this
guide is to educate you as to what, precisely, those options are.

No choice comes without disadvantages; no choice comes without risk. I will try to detail
these risks to the best of my ability in this book, but I will not be able to list them as
extensively as, say, the insert from your birth control package. If you choose to use any
pharmaceutical methods described in this book for contraception, abortion, or enhancement
of your fertility, make sure you fully understand the possible side effects.

While this guide may, of course, be used by women living anywhere, it is geared primarily
toward American women. This is because the United States is where I am from, and its laws
and regulations are the ones I am familiar with. If you are reading this book from a
country other than the United States, please be advised that any information about the
legality of medications or procedures may not apply to your location.

These pages will be very frank about reproductive systems and abortion. Any readers who
would prefer not to know graphic information about how abortions work (both the
pill-induced kind and the surgical kind) may want to restrict their reading to the first
three sections of this guide, which will give you an overview of contraception--both
hormonal and non-hormonal--as well as emergency contraception. The chapter on increasing
fertility, available in the expanded edition, may also be of interest.

Some readers may question why the expanded edition includes information on how to enhance
fertility, as well as information on preventing conception and birth. The answer is that
all reproductive choices in the United States are becoming, increasingly, something for
only the rich to choose. Women’s infertility is soaring, and although there are several
safe and effective methods that could enable a majority of these infertile women to
conceive, they are inaccessible to women who don’t have enough money for fertility
specialists. I do not believe that women should face financial obstacles to conception. I
believe in reproductive freedom, which does not exclusively mean the freedom to terminate
a pregnancy.

The information in this guide is not complete, and there are some items I have
deliberately chosen to exclude. For example, I will not detail the usage instructions of
the several products available for contraception available over-the-counter or through any
mail-order pharmacy in the United States (like condoms, vaginal contraceptive foam, etc.).
Nor will I be discussing herbal abortion methods, which are substantially more dangerous
and painful--and less likely to work--than the procedures I will describe.

Some may worry about the legal safety of me, Jane Doe, the person writing this guide. I
will say that in a world where The Anarchist’s Cookbook and Steal This Book (both of which
contain information on performing outright illegal and harmful acts) can be sold freely on
Amazon.com, I find it hard to believe prosecution would go very far. This book is a
political statement, and I trust in our First Amendment free speech protections to allow
me to maintain my liberty and safety even while making this information known.

All of the procedure information contained within these pages is readily available through
Google searches, but it is not always put into relatively plain English and it often (but
not always) assumes that you will have the help of a physician. The single best internet
resource for information on self-abortion is womenonweb.org. I am not personally
affiliated with the owners of this website, but they have done an incredible service for
women in many nations, both by providing misoprostol to women in countries where abortion
is against the law and by giving information on how to do a misoprostol-only abortion.

The expanded edition of this book will be available in paper format and e-book format for
$10 in August of 2014, and will include not only an expansion of the information contained
here (including a scholarly bibliography for women who want to do more investigation about
their options) but also an entirely new section on how to increase your fertility safely
and without the aid of a physician.

These are dark days for reproductive justice advocates. It is time to admit that we have,
for many women, lost the fight in the legislatures and the courthouses. It is time to take
our battle into our homes and into our mailboxes. A revolution in women’s choice—a
revolution men cannot take away from us—is in your hands today. Spread this book far and
wide. You never know who might need it someday.

II. Preventing Conception, Part I: Hormonal Methods

Of all medications that have been approved by governmental authorities in the 20th
century, few have caused as much controversy, for as many reasons, as the hormonal
contraceptive pill. While countless women have been able to control their fertility
successfully through the use of “The Pill,” the religious right has attacked it as no
different from abortions. In addition, not all women are able to use hormonal birth
control without a range of negative effects, ranging from weight gain to mood swings to
heart attacks.

The most dangerous side effects of hormonal contraceptives are all cardiovascular.
Hormonal contraception makes blood clot more readily. Because of this, it is important for
women with existing cardiovascular risk factors (including a family history of heart
disease, high triglycerides, smoking, or high blood pressure) to consider the possibility
of these side effects when choosing a method to control their fertility.

This guide does not take a stand in the hormonal contraceptive “debate” except to say that
women should be educated about the risks and potential side effects of all medications
before use. Many women find hormonal contraceptives to be their most convenient option.
Others find them inconvenient or intolerable. Your mileage, as ever, may vary. I believe
in making information on fertility control available regardless of method.

The reason we’re starting with The Pill (and other hormonal contraceptives), then, is
simple. More women use hormonal contraceptive pills today than any other type of birth
control.

For Starters: The Legal Stuff

No contraceptive medication, including hormonal contraceptive pills, is listed as a
“scheduled” drug according to the United States government. This is very important,
because it makes all the difference for being able to obtain contraceptive pills
completely legally from outside the United States.

The United States government currently allows residents to import up to a 90-day supply of
any non-scheduled drug from foreign pharmacies. Realistically, they’re also not checking
to see if you got a bit more than a 90-day supply, but if you want to keep it totally on
the up-and-up, 90 pills (or 3 NuvaRings, or one Depo shot—yes, you can get these online,
as well) is your limit.

Appendix A of this document will give you resources on finding your own online pharmacies
for purchasing these medications.

There are, of course, risks inherent to purchasing hormonal contraceptive medication
online rather than obtaining it from a physician. For instance, sugar pills are cheaper
than active pills, and it’s always possible you’ll be sent inactive pills--or that a
vendor will simply take your money and send nothing. In the unregulated mail-order
pharmacy market, finding a reputable distributor is key.

The Pill

It is often difficult to find specific name-brand pill packs at online pharmacies. Many
will sell only generic versions of medications, and the names may be different from what
you are used to. Mini-pills (which contain only one of the two hormones used in most birth
control pills) are a little more finicky than traditional pills, and must be taken at the
same time each day for maximum effectiveness. All contraceptive pills, even from foreign
pharmacies, will come in labeled boxes with inserts describing how to take the medication
for maximum effectiveness.

Any traditional birth control pill (i.e. not the single-hormone ‘mini-pill’) may be used
like the brand “Seasonale,” which allows you to not have a period for three months at a
time. Simply take the active pills (the pills there are three weeks of in your pack), skip
the inactive pills (the pills there’s one week of), and move on to the active pills in the
next pack. Some women notice side effects from using hormonal pills in this way--for
instance, “breakthrough bleeding” that is less extensive than a regular period but may
occur irregularly, or symptoms they typically associate with PMS lasting for a long time.
Others find this to be a convenient way to get rid of their tampons and pads for good.
Your mileage may vary.

The Patch and The Ring

Other types of hormonal contraceptives, including NuvaRing and the birth control patch,
are also available through these foreign pharmacies and may be used according to package
instructions. Typically, these medications also have an “inactive week” like pills. The
NuvaRing may be worn continuously for four weeks, and immediately replaced with a new
ring, which will for most women prevent periods with minimal side effects. The birth
control patch has been shown to pose a significant risk of blood clots, especially for
women with other risk factors. Given what we know of the risks of the patch, I’d advise
another method unless some aspect of the patch specifically is significantly more
convenient for you.

The Shot

Depo-Provera, often referred to as simply “Depo,” is an injectable contraceptive that
works at maximum effectiveness when injected once every 3 months, but which may make
becoming pregnant more difficult for several additional months after discontinuing the
medication. Users of Depo-Provera have reported more extensive side effects than with many
other forms of contraception, including weight gain (sometimes more than 50 pounds), loss
of bone density in women who continue use beyond 5 years, and extreme psychological
effects.

Regardless of these side effects, there are reasons some women want or need Depo Provera
injections. It is highly effective at preventing pregnancy and does not require a woman to
remember a daily routine, so it can be useful for women who have a problem with forgetting
to take their pills every day.

Depo-Provera also has a singular advantage that many women never have to think about
(thankfully): because the only evidence of the injection is a tiny needle mark (usually in
the gluteal area), Depo injections can be used by women who are preventing pregnancy
without the knowledge of a partner. With nearly 10 percent of women in the United States
reporting that their significant others have pressured them to have a baby when they
didn’t want to, it’s important to know about Depo and how it is used. This is the kind of
knowledge that could save the lives of women in abusive situations.

Depo-Provera works through an intramuscular injection, and is shipped in pre-dosed,
disposable syringes with needles equipped. Because of this, it’s actually quite possible
to perform a Depo injection at home. Intravenous injections are much more difficult, but
in this case it’s actually important not to inject into a blood vessel.

There are two main sites for injecting Depo-Provera. The first (and preferred) site is the
gluteus maximus muscle, the largest muscle in the body. The muscle extends over the
buttock, but the best IM injection site for Depo injections is just above the buttock.
That’s because the buttock is often covered in a relatively thick layer of fat, and if the
injection is not put into the muscle the medication will be significantly less effective.

The biggest problem with this injection site is a simple one: it is nearly impossible to
self-inject safely. While you’re better off having someone you trust (See: Appendix B,
Building Networks of Trust) help you with your injection, self-injection may be necessary
for some women, and so a secondary injection site will be introduced. The bicep muscle,
located in the upper arm, is an acceptable alternative.

For technique information on performing intramuscular injections, the best place to ask is
Google. Video tutorials explaining proper technique with visual aids are abundant, and
it’s worth your time to watch a couple of these before you attempt an intramuscular
injection on yourself or someone else in your network of trust.

You may experience some soreness for a day or two near the injection site. This is normal
and not cause for alarm. It is also normal for your period to become far lighter or even
stop altogether—sometimes for up to a year after discontinuing the medication.

III. Preventing Conception, Part II: The Diaphragm

Many women would prefer, for various reasons, not to use hormonal contraceptive methods.
These women have several options of varying effectiveness available over the counter in
the drugstore, including vaginal contraceptive foam, film, and female condoms.

However, the most effective form of non-hormonal birth control is one that many women
regard as part of a bygone era: the diaphragm.

Here are the reasons many women hate diaphragms: They must be inserted somewhat soon
before sex, removed only after several hours have passed, and coated in a spermicidal
jelly that is the very opposite of sensual. They also require fittings by a qualified
gynecologist. And on top of that, they’re not very effective!

Here’s the biggest secret in contraception: almost everything you know about diaphragms is
wrong.

According to research conducted starting in the 1980s and 1990s (after the golden age of
diaphragms had passed into memory), diaphragms do not require spermicide to be effective.
In fact, when medical researchers began investigating, they found that there is a
non-spermicidal method of diaphragm use that is more effective than the traditional
spermicidal method.

According to research (in, among other papers “Effectiveness of the diaphragm, used
continuously, without spermicide” by Ferreira et al. [available at scholar.google.com]),
the most effective way to use a diaphragm is referred to as “continuous use,” or CU. The
method works as follows:

Insert the diaphragm. Rinse it once every 24-48 hours to remove any discharge, but not
within four hours of sex. Do not use during any heavy flow days of your period.

That’s it. No messy spermicide. No decreased spontaneity. No painful, stinging irritation
for women with chemical sensitivities.

What’s more, the old wisdom that diaphragms required sizing turns out to have not been
entirely true, either. While it’s true that some women will require, due to anatomical
quirks, a smaller or larger diaphragm, over ⅔ of women can use a diaphragm of a standard
70 mm size according to “Diaphragms in clinical trials: is clinician fitting necessary?”
(Mauck, et al.).

In recent years, a new diaphragm called the Caya has been released that provides an
ergonomic and comfortable fit that works for almost all women in a single size. Generally,
the women the Caya will be unsuitable for will be those for whom it is too large.

Because many countries in Europe allow the sale of diaphragms without a prescription,
several websites sell diaphragms with no prescription and will ship them to the United
States. At the time of this writing, most diaphragm options, including shipping to the
United States, cost about $50-80.

During the heavy flow days of your period, you can sterilize your silicone diaphragm using
boiling water or a soak in drugstore hydrogen peroxide solution, then rinse and reinsert.
A diaphragm used in this manner can work as effective contraception for several years.
Some women also like to use their diaphragm to ensure mess-free sexual intercourse during
menstruation.

Used with the once-daily rinse method, diaphragms have a failure rate of about one to two
couples in 100 per year of intercourse, a similar failure rate to some forms of hormonal
contraceptives. Because the CU method is much easier to comply with than the traditional
use method, it is also more likely to be practiced consistently and effectively.

Cervical caps are another method of non-hormonal contraception. They must be used in
conjunction with spermicide, as studies have shown significantly reduced effectiveness
without it. Because of their significantly more difficult compliance requirements and
their lack of advantages over diaphragms used with the CU method, this guide will not
currently recommend cervical caps as a method of protection. However, extensive
information regarding their use can be found using Google.

IV. Emergency Contraception

Emergency contraception works by giving the body hormones that are analogous to those
produced during pregnancy. This mechanism of action prevents ovulation and is also
somewhat effective at preventing implantation of existing embryos.

It is also the same mechanism of action that is used by hormonal birth control pills. In
fact, many commonly sold brands of birth control pills can be used off-label as emergency
contraception. Because of the way emergency contraception works, its effectiveness depends
on two things: where you are in your menstrual cycle and how soon after unprotected
intercourse you take the pills. The longer you wait after unprotected intercourse, the
less effective emergency contraception will be. However, studies show it can still have
some effect for up to five days after unprotected intercourse.

Even if you choose to control your fertility with non-pill methods, it may be worthwhile
to obtain a packet of birth control pills. Especially if you have access to free
contraception through an insurance plan, it may be significantly more cost-effective to
use this method than to purchase Plan B (which I have seen selling for as much as $65 per
packet) over the counter.

The active ingredient in Plan B is 1.5 milligrams (1500 micrograms) of levonorgestrel, an
artificial progesterone. Pills like Amethyst, Aviane, Jolessa, Levora, Cryselle, Camrese,
Nordette, Seasonale, Trivora, and more contain the same medication, along with other
active ingredients.

In the past, Plan B was taken in two doses: a 1.5 mg pill as soon as possible after
unprotected sex, and another 1.5 mg pill 12 hours later. However, subsequent research
indicated that the first dose, taken alone, was equally effective and had a reduced
side-effect profile.

Some pill packs still sell two 1.5 milligram doses of levonorgestrel. Since the only
effect of the added dose is to add to gastrointestinal side effects, you may prefer to
simply take one pill and keep the other for a rainy day. Waste not, want not.

Not every birth control pill contains the active ingredient in Plan B. If your birth
control pill does, you’ll see that after the brand name, in parentheses, the word
“levonorgestrel” will appear. Contraceptive pills combine levonorgestrel with other
hormonal ingredients, and the dose of each ingredient will be listed on your medication
packaging.

In order to use a levonorgestrel birth control pill as emergency contraception, you’ll
want to first compute how many pills you will need to take. First, look how many
milligrams of levonorgestrel are in each pill. For most birth control pill formulations
containing levonorgestrel, this will be .5-.6 mg. This means that in order to bring the
total amount of levonorgestrel to 1.5mg, you will typically need three pills, taken in a
single dose as soon as possible after having unprotected sex. 1.5 divided by the number of
milligrams per pill (or 1500 divided by the number of micrograms per pill) will give you
the number of pills required.

Round UP, not down: slightly too much medication is better than slightly too little.
However, it is unnecessary to use extra pills significantly beyond the 1.5 mg dosage. Many
websites containing information on how to use levonorgestrel-containing birth control as
emergency contraception say that women should take, depending on the brand of birth
control being used, up to twelve total tablets containing .5 mg of levonorgestrel each
(divided into two doses). This is unnecessary and may even be harmful. The amount of total
levonorgestrel in such a dosage is substantially more likely to cause side effects--mostly
of the gastrointestinal variety--without significantly enhancing the ability of the pills
to prevent unwanted pregnancy.

It is absolutely essential to make sure you only use active pills when using contraceptive
pills as Plan B. Most forms of contraceptive pills come in monthly packs that include 21
days of active pills and 7 days of placeholder sugar pills. The three weeks of active
pills are generally colored differently from the week of inactive (sugar) pills in the
pill packet. Inactive pills have no medication at all, so using them won’t help you to
prevent a pregnancy.

Users of emergency contraception should know that EC involves the risks of taking any
hormonal birth control pill (though the fact that it is taken infrequently and only for a
day at a time makes long-term side effects unlikely). Many users report minor
gastrointestinal distress or being nauseated. Much less frequently, blood clots have been
known to form as a result of the active ingredient in these pills. Blood clots are a
serious side effect (possibly even lethal if one dislodges and causes a pulmonary
embolism, stroke, or heart attack) but are rare. If you notice severe leg pain, shortness
of breath, or any symptoms of a stroke or heart attack after taking emergency
contraception, go to the emergency room immediately--these could indicate the formation of
a blood clot.

V. Medical Abortion

Two Ways To Terminate

Terminating a pregnancy can be done in two basic ways. Surgical abortion (which can range
from early-term vacuum aspiration to late-term dilation and extraction) involves using
surgical implements on the uterus itself, while medical abortion involves using chemical
agents (pills) that work to terminate a pregnancy.

For several reasons, this guide will focus primarily on medical abortions. Surgical
abortions will be covered later, but unless you are a trained medical practitioner
yourself, this is the section you’ll want to use if you need to terminate a pregnancy.

A drug that causes a pregnancy to terminate is called an abortifacient. Abortifacient
drugs have a long and storied history, and most of the earliest abortifacient drugs were
herbal concoctions. In fact, women in ancient Rome were said to have used a plant for this
purpose so much that it became extinct!

No woman today should use herbs to abort. Let me repeat that: no woman today should use
herbs to terminate her pregnancy. Many herbal abortion recipes are, in fact, dangerous,
and can cause significant digestive distress and worse without doing anything to terminate
a pregnancy. Others simply don’t work at all.

What does work is misoprostol. It is the safest, most effective pharmaceutical
abortifacient in the history of the world, and it is available at pharmacies in many
non-US countries. What’s more, it is unlikely to be banned or restricted in the near
future, because it also serves a function as a blood pressure medication for many
non-pregnant people. On its own, misoprostol can be expected to terminate around 80-85% of
pregnancies. With the addition of another medication (either mifepristone or, in early
term pregnancy, methotrexate), this rate of successful termination reaches over 90%.

Why Not Surgical?

Surgical abortions are substantially faster than medical abortions, but require a trained
practitioner. In the past, a majority of women seeking illegal abortions have had to
resort to finding a practitioner of surgical abortions. Many of these practitioners were
insufficiently trained and caused internal injuries or even death.

With a medical abortion, the risks no longer involve perforation of the uterus or
post-surgical infection, as they did in the age of illegal surgical abortions. Because the
active ingredient in Cytotec, misoprostol, works by making your uterus cramp and bleed, it
is possible that it will cause you to bleed too much. Hemorrhage, which means the profuse
loss of blood, is the single greatest danger of a medical abortion.

Surgical abortions also fundamentally require allowing someone else access to your body in
an invasive way. A Womb of One’s Own aims to liberate women from the need to rely on other
people for abortion care.

While I, Jane Doe, have chosen my pseudonym as a nod to the women of the Jane Collective
in Chicago, who provided surgical abortions, the Janes were operating in a very different
time. Had they known of a safe and efficacious way to abort without the risks of infection
and scarring posed by dilation and curetteage, they undoubtedly would have used it. We
should be grateful in these difficult times that we have a safer option than our
foremothers.

Dating Your Pregnancy

Some methods of medical abortion depend on knowing when your pregnancy began. For example,
later we’ll be discussing an abortion drug that is only useful in the first 9 weeks of
pregnancy. But when does that 9 weeks begin? The answer is likely to surprise you, unless
you’re a pregnancy and birth expert.

When a doctor says a woman is 9 weeks pregnant, he or she is typically referring to the
weeks since her last normal menstrual period. This means, rather counterintuitively, that
the first two weeks of pregnancy take place before sperm and egg have even met! Some
women’s dates are thrown off by a phenomenon known as “implantation bleeding.” In very
early pregnancy, near the time when the embryo implants into the uterine wall, a small
amount of blood spotting can occur. Since this happens near the time the woman’s menstrual
period would normally take place, some women assume they are simply having a very light,
spotty period and don’t realize they have missed their cycle until a month later.

This is why it’s important to think of when your last normal period, with a normal flow,
was. If you are in doubt, don’t use Protocol 3 below.

It is important to keep in mind that when it comes to terminating pregnancies, earlier is
always better. The earlier your termination occurs, the quicker and less painful it will
be, and the more likely it will be that you will have a complete abortion. Incomplete
abortion, in which some of the uterine contents are retained (possibly causing side
effects), is a greater risk in pregnancies of beyond 12 weeks’ gestation.

If you want to be sure about the gestational age of your pregnancy, the only way to be
certain is through a sonogram. The doctor or ultrasound technician can make a good
estimate of fetal age based on size and developmental level.

However, there is a disadvantage to getting a sonogram: there is now a medical record of
your pregnancy. If you are planning to terminate your pregnancy in a state where
self-abortion is illegal, this could potentially cause problems for you later on. It is
probably best to act as if you are happy about your pregnancy and want to continue it—this
way, if the worst happens and your abortion is complicated, you can return to the hospital
and claim a miscarriage without anyone suspecting you of desiring an abortion.

If Something Goes Wrong

Because no pregnancy termination (or any other medical procedure) is 100% safe, it is
important to know what to do if you have a medical emergency arising from or taking place
soon after your medical abortion.

First things first: After you’ve used the misoprostol, there is no way that the doctors or
nurses you see will be able to identify the medication in your blood. There is no blood or
urine test that can detect it. A medical abortion looks indistinguishable from a
miscarriage from a physician’s point of view.

If your medical abortion goes wrong—for instance, if you are bleeding much more heavily
than a menstrual period, you have a fever of 101 degrees or more, or you experience
moderate bleeding for more than 10 days—you should seek emergency room treatment. In order
to avoid being subject to some states’ laws against self-termination of pregnancy, do not
admit to having taken any abortifacient medication. You should simply say you are having a
miscarriage.

When the clinicians ask when your miscarriage began, you can give them the date when you
used the misoprostol tablets. Tell them you felt some severe cramping and realized you
were bleeding. You can tell them you knew you were pregnant if you prefer, but you may
prefer to say you only realized the pregnancy had happened when the miscarriage began (you
can always say you’ve had one before and know what they feel like).

Remember: hemorrhage and infection are nothing to mess with. They are also both incredibly
treatable in the hospital. Don’t be afraid to seek treatment if your medical abortion goes
wrong—just make sure you stay tight-lipped about what caused your miscarriage to begin.

If your pregnancy has not been terminated and the fetus is still alive, you will likely be
treated for bleeding during pregnancy and released after some time being observed in the
hospital for additional bleeding or other worrying symptoms.

If your termination was incomplete, and your uterus is retaining some of the products of
conception even though the fetus is dead, the doctors in the emergency room will perform a
vacuum aspiration to remove the remaining contents from your uterus.

The Abortion Drugs

There are several basic abortion drugs you should know about, but the most important one
is called misoprostol. Its most common name-brand formulation is referred to as Cytotec.
It’s used for some heart conditions, and will cause contractions of the uterus. This
medication alone will generally expel fetal material very effectively (success rates of
nearly 90%) up to 12 weeks after your most recent period.

After this time, aborting with misoprostol becomes somewhat riskier, but is still quite
possible. Abortions at up to 24 weeks through vaginal use of misoprostol are conducted in
the UK and EU, and some women actually report greater satisfaction.
(http://www.guttmacher.org/pubs/journals/3613304a.html).

Misoprostol alone will cause over 80% of pregnancies to terminate within about a day, a
success rate that is far higher than any herbal preparation. However, many women would
prefer more certainty than 80-85%, and I don’t blame them. In order to achieve better
results, another medication must be added.

Mifepristone works by preventing the action of progesterone on the body. Progesterone is a
“pregnancy hormone,” a chemical your body produces to signal and maintain a pregnancy.
When you take mifepristone, you essentially are tricking your body into believing that
your pregnancy has already ended, allowing it to return to its pre-pregnant state. This
means your body will cut off nutrient supplies from the placenta and allow it to detach,
and the cervix will prepare for miscarriage.

Mifepristone on its own is not as effective as misoprostol on its own, but together they
work to terminate about 90% of pregnancies.

There is a third, less commonly used medical abortion option, and it is one I will detail
here in the interest of completeness even though it has several distinct disadvantages
over the mifepristone/misoprostol combination.

Methotrexate is most commonly used as an abortion drug during ectopic, or tubal,
pregnancies. It works by making your body not respond to folic acid. You may recall that
folic acid supplementation in pregnancy works to prevent deformities and pregnancy
loss—essentially, methotrexate’s action stops cells from dividing correctly, which leads
to the rapid death of the fetus. This is why it is used in tubal pregnancies: rather than
taking effect on the uterus, methotrexate works directly on the embryo or fetus.

Methotrexate’s method of action is only effective for terminating early pregnancies—say
before about 9 weeks since a woman’s last normal menstrual period. Using it any later than
this may result in poor pregnancy outcomes and deformities. Studies have shown that
combining methotrexate with misoprostol works approximately as well as combining
mifepristone with misoprostol in early pregnancy. If you are unable to obtain
mifepristone, but can obtain methotrexate, it may be useful for an early-term abortion.
Just keep in mind that if the pregnancy is not terminated, the methotrexate could cause
irreversible damage to the fetus.

What Do I Need?

For the best chance of terminating your pregnancy, you will need Protocol 1:

800 micrograms of misoprostol 200 milligrams of mifepristone

Alternately, you may choose to use Protocol 2:

800 micrograms of misoprostol (alone)

In early pregnancy only (less than 9 weeks since your last normal period), you may opt for
Protocol 3:

800 micrograms of misoprostol

75-100 milligrams of methotrexate (the typical dose is 50 milligrams per square meter of
body surface area. An average woman’s body surface area is 1.6 square meters.)

For all medical abortion protocols, the following followup protocol is advisable to have
on hand:

800 micrograms of misoprostol

Because medical abortions almost always cause painful cramping, you may also want to have
pain medication on hand. Typically, whatever you find most effective for menstrual cramps
will be useful here as well. Acetaminophen (Tylenol), naproxen (Aleve), and ibuprofen
(Advil) are all excellent options. Heat, such as from a heating pad or hot water bottle,
may also be useful in relieving the pain from misoprostol cramping.

Approximately one quarter of women receiving medical abortions in clinics opt to use an
opiate medication to manage their medical abortion pain. While these medications are
typically scheduled and therefore not legal to obtain without a prescription, you may
(like many Americans) already have some on hand. A normal dose of acetaminophen, an NSAID
like naproxen or ibuprofen, or opiate painkillers will not make any impact on the efficacy
of your abortion.

You will also want to have sanitary pads available for your use, even if you normally use
a tampon, menstrual cup, or menstrual sponge. Due to the risk of infection, it is
important not to introduce items to the inside of the vagina while your medical abortion
is taking place. Sanitary pads allow this bleeding to take place without putting you at
risk.

Protocol 1

This is the gold standard, the most effective of medical abortion regimens. If you are
able to obtain both mifepristone and misoprostol, you will have a very good chance of a
complete and quick termination, especially in the first 12 weeks of pregnancy.

First, you’ll take the 200 milligrams of mifepristone. This is an oral dose: simply take
the medication as you would any pill, swallowing it with some water.

Six to eight hours later, you will want to administer the misoprostol pills. In order to
maximize the chance of a successful termination and minimize side effects, the best way to
do this is to insert the pills vaginally. The vaginal mucosa (the tissues surrounding your
vagina) will dissolve and absorb the pills.

To administer the 800 micrograms of misoprostol vaginally, simply take each tablet one at
a time and insert it as deeply as possible into your vagina, near the back of the vaginal
walls.

Protocol 2 Insert the 800 mcg of misoprostol vaginally as instructed above, omitting the
mifepristone step.

Protocol 3 If your methotrexate is in pill form, take it orally. If it is in injection
form, follow the instructions for an intramuscular (IM) injection described in the above
section on Depo-Provera shots.

Forty-eight hours after you have used the methotrexate (either injected or orally), insert
800 mcg of misoprostol into your vagina.

How Much Will It Hurt?

Typically, you can expect cramping pain to begin around 1-3 hours after you took the
misoprostol pills. Cramps may be severe, though they will generally become significantly
less painful after the pregnancy tissue has been passed.

Pain is inherently subjective, and cultural and psychological factors matter a great deal
to the experience of abortion pain. In general, being informed and having a good
understanding of the procedure and what it is likely to feel like will help to diminish
fear responses that would otherwise make the pain worse.

While the worst of the cramps should subside within a few days, you may experience
residual cramping for up to six weeks. As long as this cramping is not accompanied by
excessive bleeding (see the section “How Much Bleeding is Too Much?” below), you can
consider it a normal part of the medical abortion process.

You may also experience some amount of emotional and psychological distress. For some
women, terminating a pregnancy is an extremely emotionally fraught decision, and it is a
choice that is rarely made lightly. If you feel depression, guilt, and so on in the weeks
immediately following your medical abortion, it may be due (in part or in whole) to your
body’s hormones returning to their pre-pregnancy levels. Some women find that this
triggers a temporary hormonal emotional response that can be similar to post-partum
depression.

Emotional symptoms lasting beyond a few weeks are unlikely to be caused directly by the
physiological hormone changes. If you experience long-lasting emotional pain due to your
abortion, you may want to seek counseling. Avoid counseling at so-called “crisis pregnancy
centers,” which are generally staffed by unqualified, untrained activists with a religious
agenda. A traditional talk therapist can help you to discuss any unresolved feelings about
your abortion and help you to heal.

How Much Bleeding Is Too Much?

Since the main dangerous side effect of misoprostol abortion is hemorrhage, but all
misoprostol abortions cause some amount of bleeding, it is natural to wonder: how much is
too much?

One good way to gauge how much you’re bleeding is to see how many sanitary pads you’re
going through. While it may seem like a large amount of blood, it is normal during the
heaviest part of a medical abortion to be soaking through up to two super/overnight
sanitary pads every hour. If you are soaking through more than two pads per hour for more
than two hours in a row, you should seek medical attention.

Blood clots, as well as the products of conception, are normally passed during a medical
abortion. It is generally a good idea to keep track of the products of conception, so that
you can be sure they have all been voided from your body. Some blood clots you pass may be
quite a bit larger than during a typical period—this is not usually cause for alarm,
unless you continue to pass them frequently.

The Followup Protocol

Sometimes, a single dose of misoprostol is insufficient to trigger pregnancy-ending
cramps. However, a followup vaginal dose of 800 mcg of misoprostol may be effective.
Typically, you’ll want to wait 5 days after attempting a medical abortion using
misoprostol to use the followup protocol.

If you felt nothing at all—no cramps, no bleeding, nothing—there’s a very good chance you
were given inert pills by your overseas pharmacy. See Appendix A for more information on
the best ways to avoid scam pharmacies and how to limit your chances of something going
wrong with your pills.

Do not use the followup protocol if you are experiencing severe bleeding (hemorrhage).
Instead, you need to visit a hospital. See the “If Something Goes Wrong” section above.
Keep in mind that some ordinary miscarriages, especially later ones, also involve bleeding
that won’t stop. A doctor will not be able to tell that you have performed a
self-termination unless you tell them so—and anyone who tries to pressure you into
revealing your abortion is not on your side. Your medical care will be the same for a
“missed miscarriage,” in which the fetal tissue hasn’t been expelled, as it will be for an
incomplete misoprostol abortion. The only difference is that the former won’t get you into
any legal trouble, while the latter might.

FAQ: Medical Abortion

What is the difference between a medical abortion and Plan B?

Plan B only works in a narrow window before an egg is released or an embryo is implanted.
By the time you have a positive pregnancy test result, it is far too late for Plan B to be
effective. If regular contraception is Plan A and emergency contraception is Plan B,
consider a medical abortion “plan C.”

How pregnant is too pregnant to terminate a pregnancy medically?

In the United States, misoprostol/mifepristone abortion is performed only on pregnancies
of less than 9 weeks’ gestation. However, pregnant women can safely terminate pregnancies
through the 24th week of gestation using misoprostol. This has been shown by a number of
European studies, where abortion via misoprostol is offered as an option in many countries
throughout the second trimester of pregnancy.

While the ostensible reason for limiting the gestational age in the United States is
safety, second trimester and late first trimester abortions are still quite safe with
misoprostol. However, the earlier the abortion is performed, the safer it will be. The
medications are also more effective when used earlier—a small percentage of women will
find that misoprostol is insufficient to terminate their pregnancy, and this percentage
grows with fetal age. Later in this FAQ, we’ll cover what to do if a medical abortion goes
wrong.

What about after 24 weeks?

Allow me to be quite blunt and clear here in the interest of free distribution of
information: there is no particular reason that the method outlined here wouldn’t work at
even later phases of pregnancy. However, in later phases of pregnancy, the result of using
misoprostol will be not an abortion, but a live birth of a premature and potentially
medically needy infant.

Even in the 22-24 week timeframe, it is possible to experience a live birth of a baby
(albeit one that will generally not survive long). This is an emotionally challenging and
legally difficult situation, and one that needs to be kept in mind by any woman
considering using a medical abortion in late-stage pregnancy.

Should I use misoprostol vaginally or orally?

While studies have shown that the effectiveness of misoprostol varies only slightly
depending on whether it is ingested or used vaginally, vaginal administration seems to
have a slight edge on oral administration in most comparisons. To be on the safe side,
it’s probably best to use vaginal administration. However, if this is potentially
uncomfortable or traumatic, oral administration will still be highly effective.

Why would I want to add mifepristone to my misoprostol dose?

When women see that the cost of mifepristone is significantly higher than that of
misoprostol, many wonder if the drug is necessary at all. It is true that misoprostol
alone will successfully terminate a first-trimester pregnancy at least 85% of the time.
However, adding mifepristone in the correct dosage can bring those chances to the 95%
range for first-trimester pregnancies.

If you are unable to obtain mifepristone and want to terminate your pregnancy, misoprostol
alone gives you a very good chance. Consider mifepristone an optional add-on that can give
you additional peace of mind.

What does having a medical abortion feel like?

Misoprostol works by causing the uterine muscles to contract. This leads to cramping
sensations and bleeding. Many women also experience symptoms like nausea and
light-headedness. Some women also experience emotional symptoms, both because of hormone
fluctuations and because of the psychological difficulty involved in making the decision
to terminate a pregnancy.

You may feel relatively severe cramping sensations. This is caused by the uterus
contracting upwards, allowing the cervix to dilate and the fetal tissue to pass through.
You may want to keep a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, like ibuprofen or Naproxen,
on hand in order to make the cramping more manageable.

What else can I do to prepare?

Some women are able to continue with their daily activities throughout most of the
abortion process, but most prefer to spend the days they are experiencing the heaviest
bleeding at home, with a hot pad to relieve cramping. If it’s possible for you to take
time off work, it’s probably a good idea.

Pamper yourself in the way you might for a difficult period—if particular scents, foods,
television shows, or music can help you to relax during tough menstrual cramps, you may
find them valuable during the medical abortion process as well.

What will the fetal tissue look like when it comes out?

This depends completely on how advanced your pregnancy is. In the earliest stages of
pregnancy, it may be fairly difficult to distinguish the products of conception from blood
clots. As a pregnancy continues, however, the fetus becomes more identifiable. Because of
this, it is important to give some consideration to what you might do with the fetal
tissue when it passes.

The safest and easiest way to dispose of remains that are relatively small is the toilet.
Burial works for larger remains—make sure you dig a deep enough hole that animals will not
be able to get into it. If you are self-aborting in a state where self-abortion is
criminalized, you should not flush fetal remains down the toilet or bury them immediately.
Instead, soak the products of conception in a bucket of bleach overnight--this will make
DNA evidence much more difficult to obtain.

How do I know if I need to seek medical attention for complications?

If your bleeding is excessive—which requires bleeding through more than two
overnight-style maxi pads per hour for more than two hours, or having continuous, heavy
period-like bleeding for longer than two weeks—you should seek the help of a physician.
Hemorrhage is nothing to mess with.

Another complication possibility is infection. While medical abortions do not commonly
result in infection, any time the cervix is open (for instance, to expel the products of
conception) there is a greater-than-usual chance for unfriendly microbes to take up
residence. If you experience sensations of warmth or pain that seems to be different from
cramping, or have a high fever in the days after your misoprostol abortion, it is
important to seek medical attention in case you have developed a uterine infection.
Miscarriages can also result in the same complications, so you should be safe in telling a
doctor that you are miscarrying a wanted pregnancy, even in states where self-abortion is
forbidden.

VI. Surgical Abortion

For a long time, the gold standard of abortion was the surgical abortion. Often performed
with dilators and curettes or, more recently, vacuum aspiration systems, surgical
abortions still hold a few key advantages over their medical counterparts. Perhaps the
biggest of these advantages is duration: while the abortion itself may last hours or days
after misoprostol is administered, early vacuum aspiration abortions and D&C procedures
last only a few minutes and are quite safe.

About a decade ago, I produced a manual for performing a dilation and curetteage abortion.
However, I will not reproduce that manual in these pages. My reasoning is simple: for an
untrained person, it is far safer to work within the confines of pharmaceutical abortion
than it is to venture into invasive procedures with a concomitant risk of infection,
lacerations, and so on.

It is possible when using a medical abortion method that the abortion will not be
“completed”—in other words, that not all of the fetal tissue, placenta, and so on will be
ejected by the body. When this happens, bleeding can persist and infection can take hold.
When this happens, the typical treatment given in an emergency room is either a dilation &
curetteage or vacuum aspirator procedure—which are also the two most common surgical
abortion procedures.

However, let me make this perfectly clear: it would be downright stupid for a home
practitioner to attempt to surgically complete an incomplete misoprostol abortion.
Infection complications and inflammation mean that you need a professional. This is not
the time to gamble with your life.

Appendix A: Finding an Online Pharmacy

One thing I’m not going to do in this guide, in particular, is give URLs for specific
online pharmacies. I have several reasons. First, I don’t want anyone thinking this is
being done to shill for an online pharmacy. Second, the quality of foreign pharma
companies can vary, and companies can go out of business. I don’t want to have to update
this every time a website goes under. Third, I think it’s important for women to develop
the information literacy needed to find a reputable site and make their own
connections--if everyone uses the sites I provide, it’s possible they’ll run out or face
political pressure to stop providing the medications I’ve discussed in this guide.

Pharmacies for Abortifacients and Hormonal Birth Control

If you want to do a web search, don’t search for things like “mifepristone no
prescription” or “misoprostol without rx.” These kinds of searches tend to bring up spammy
sites that are more likely to be scams that take your credit card information and run. In
order to find a legitimate provider of mifepristone or misoprostol, my advice is to start
with web forums. For instance, drugbuyersguide.net offers a forum with information about
international pharmacies—but don’t just stop there.

On these forums, you’ll want to look for pharmacies that are well-rated by forum members
and which lose packages only occasionally (due to the difficulties of transporting mail
worldwide, no online pharmacy has a perfect delivery record). Occasionally, forum members
in these types of forums will go so far as to have their drugs tested for purity and
dosage. The people most likely to do this kind of testing are trans people—many trans men
and women buy their hormones from online so that they will not need to deal with medical
gatekeeping. Since they’re spending a lot of money over the course of many years, testing
medications (which can cost upward of $1000 per test) can still be cost-effective.

While transgender hormone medications are not the same as the medications you’ll be
ordering, your main concern should be whether an online pharmacy is sending customers what
they ordered. Neither mifepristone nor misoprostol is a particularly expensive medication,
and if some of the pharmacy’s medications are legitimate, it is much more likely your own
medication will be.

I have seen prices for mifepristone ranging from about $8-10 per dose to around $50 per
dose, and $2 to $20 for misoprostol. You shouldn’t pay more than this—if a pharmacy is
charging $100 or more for mifepristone or misoprostol, chances are that they are actually
scamming desperate women and sending either sugar pills or no pills at all.

If you have enough money to do so, it is a good idea to purchase pills from two or three
different pharmacies when you need abortion medication. That way, if one pharmacy has
given you pills that don’t work or fail to send the pills in a timely manner, you still
have a backup.

Within six hours of taking misoprostol, you will know whether your pills were duds. Even
an incomplete misoprostol abortion would lead to cramping and bleeding. If you are simply
not feeling different at all, it’s very likely that the medication you purchased is not
actually misoprostol. Don’t panic about receiving a medication that could hurt you: since
every medication costs more than inactive pill ingredients, it is very unlikely that you
would receive an active pill of some other medication. Instead, it’s very likely that you
received “sugar pills”—pills with no active ingredients at all, usually made of sugars and
starches.

Twelve hours after taking a dose of “misoprostol” that turned out to be inert pills, you
can try again with pills from another pharmacy. This gives you plenty of time to feel the
effects of the misoprostol and verify that you are not double-dosing on active pills.

Pharmacies For Diaphragms

Diaphragms are non-prescription in many English-speaking countries, including the United
Kingdom. Google searching for something like “buy diaphragm online no prescription” will
generally yield good results, as there are not a ton of pharmacies involved in fake
diaphragm scams!

Appendix B: Building Your Network of Trust

In today’s legal climate, restrictions on abortion and contraception are quick to crop up
and can take years to stop—if they ever stop at all. This means it’s more important than
ever to develop networks of trust with women you know.

What is a “network of trust”? Put simply, this is a group of women who want to help each
other to ensure that people in their group of friends will be able to make reproductive
decisions regardless of legal restrictions.

If you already know your friends to be pro-choice, you may believe it would be easy to
build these networks. However, even pro-choice people can sometimes be hesitant to break
the law in order to support the cause. If a pro-choice person is on the fence about
whether or not to join your network of trust, feel free to share A Womb Of One’s Own with
them—and feel free to share the information that first- and second-trimester abortions are
as safe or safer than giving birth. It’s also important for them to know that the
importation of abortion pills is not illegal, nor is taking the common ulcer medication
Cytotec (misoprostol) that induces the abortion.

It is important to only allow people into your networks of trust that you believe will
keep your secrets safe. While the vast majority of what you will be doing is legal,
allowing people into your networks of trust who are not, themselves, trustworthy can
create a host of problems.

Once you develop a network of trust, there’s one important rule any time someone orders
pharmaceuticals for emergency contraception, birth control, abortion, and so on: GET
EXTRAS. Buy extra pills, stash them away, keep them for a rainy day or a woman you know
who is in urgent need of them.

If any women in your networks of trust have connections to a country like India or Mexico,
where misoprostol and mifepristone can be sold without a prescription, or to the UK where
diaphragms are prescription-less, you may want to use these connections to find quality
pharmaceuticals and import them quickly.
